Java: Add DEVELOPER.md (#334)
Bit-Quill/glide-for-redis: java/DEVELOPER.md

### Development Overview

The GLIDE for Redis Java wrapper consists of both Java and Rust code. Rust bindings for the Java Native Interface are implemented using [jni-rs](https://github.com/jni-rs/jni-rs), and the Java JAR is built using [Gradle](https://github.com/gradle/gradle). The Java and Rust components communicate using the [protobuf](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf) protocol.

### Build from source

#### Prerequisites

Software Dependencies

-   git
-   GCC
-   pkg-config
-   protoc (protobuf compiler) >= 26.1
-   openssl
-   openssl-dev
-   rustup
-   Java 11

**Dependencies installation for Ubuntu**

```bash
sudo apt update -y
sudo apt install -y openjdk-11-jdk git gcc pkg-config openssl libssl-dev unzip
# Install rust
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
source "$HOME/.cargo/env"
# Check that the Rust compiler is installed
rustc --version
# Install protobuf compiler
PB_REL="https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases"
curl -LO $PB_REL/download/v26.1/protoc-26.1-linux-x86_64.zip
unzip protoc-26.1-linux-x86_64.zip -d $HOME/.local
export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin"
# Check that the protobuf compiler is installed

> protoc --version

Reviewer: Duplicate this block (`protoc`) to other systems or move it away from ubuntu section.

```

**Dependencies installation for CentOS**

```bash
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum install -y java-11-openjdk-devel git gcc pkgconfig openssl openssl-devel unzip
# Install rust
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh

> 

Reviewer: ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
```

**Dependencies installation for MacOS**

```bash
brew update
brew install openjdk@11 git gcc pkgconfig protobuf openssl
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
source "$HOME/.cargo/env"
```

#### Building and installation steps

Before starting this step, make sure you've installed all software requirments.

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    VERSION=0.1.0 # You can modify this to other released version or set it to "main" to get the unstable branch
    git clone --branch ${VERSION} https://github.com/aws/glide-for-redis.git
    cd glide-for-redis
    ```
2. Initialize git submodule:
    ```bash
    git submodule update --init --recursive
    ```
3. Build the Java wrapper (Choose a build option from the following and run it from the `java` folder):

    1. Build in debug mode:

    ```bash
    ./gradlew :client:buildAll
    ```

    2. Build in release mode:

    ```bash
    ./gradlew :client:buildAllRelease
    ```

### Test

> To run tests, use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run all tests, use the following command:
```
Tell about
```
./gradlew :client:test # UT
./gradlew :integTest:test # IT
./gradlew :client:testFfi # FFI tests
```
Also good to share how we can run one test only, for example
```
./gradlew :integTest:test --tests '*.functionLoad_and_functionList' --rerun # one test
./gradlew :client:test --tests 'TransactionTests' --rerun # one class
```

```bash
./gradlew test
```

> 

Reviewer: Please mention `./gradlew protobuf` to (re)generate files.

### Submodules

After pulling new changes, ensure that you update the submodules by running the following command:

```bash
git submodule update
```

### Linters

Development on the Java wrapper may involve changes in either the Java or Rust code. Each language has distinct linter tests that must be passed before committing changes.

#### Language-specific Linters

**Java:**

-   Spotless

**Rust:**

> -   clippy
> -   rustfmt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   clippy
-   rustfmt
-   doc
```

Author: `cargo doc` isn't a linter though

#### Running the linters

1. Spotless
    ```bash
    # Run from the `java` folder

>     ./gradlew :spotlessCheck

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ./gradlew :spotlessApply
```

    ```
2. Rust
    ```bash
    # Run from the `java` folder

>     rustup component add clippy rustfmt

Reviewer: Aren't they go OOTB?

Author: They actually aren't installed by default, unless this has recently changed.

    cargo clippy --all-features --all-targets -- -D warnings
    cargo fmt --manifest-path ./Cargo.toml --all
    ```

> 

Reviewer: Should we tell about what we do when working on a feature? E.g. javadocs, UT, IT, etc.
Should we tell about FFI naming magic and to deal with it?

Author: Yes and yes. That also includes adding documentation about modules and when to update the module-info.java

### Recommended extensions for VS Code

> 

Reviewer: Maybe we should tell about java extensions and IDEA

```

**Dependencies installation for CentOS**

```bash
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum install -y java-11-openjdk-devel git gcc pkgconfig openssl openssl-devel unzip
# Install rust
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
```
**Dependencies installation for MacOS**

```bash
brew update
brew install openjdk@11 git gcc pkgconfig protobuf openssl
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
source "$HOME/.cargo/env"
```

#### Building and installation steps

Before starting this step, make sure you've installed all software requirments.

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    VERSION=0.1.0 # You can modify this to other released version or set it to "main" to get the unstable branch
    git clone --branch ${VERSION} https://github.com/aws/glide-for-redis.git
    cd glide-for-redis
    ```
2. Initialize git submodule:
    ```bash
    git submodule update --init --recursive
    ```
3. Build the Java wrapper (Choose a build option from the following and run it from the `java` folder):

    1. Build in debug mode:

    ```bash
    ./gradlew :client:buildAll
    ```

    2. Build in release mode:

    ```bash
    ./gradlew :client:buildAllRelease

>     ```

Reviewer 2: please add a Troubleshooting section:
```
### Troubleshooting
```
Some troubleshooting issues: 
* Failed to find `cargo` after `rustup`:  gradlew may need to be restarted to recognize the new path.  If clearing the gradle cache doesn't work, you may need to restart your machine. 
* If build fails because cargo build compiler fails, make sure submodules are updated using `git submodule update`. 
* If protobuf 26.0 or earlier is detected, upgrade to the latest protobuf release. 
*

curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
source "$HOME/.cargo/env"
# Check that the Rust compiler is installed
rustc --version
# Install protobuf compiler
PB_REL="https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases"
curl -LO $PB_REL/download/v26.1/protoc-26.1-linux-x86_64.zip
unzip protoc-26.1-linux-x86_64.zip -d $HOME/.local
export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin"
# Check that the protobuf compiler version 26.1 or higher is installed
protoc --version
```

**Dependencies installation for CentOS**

```bash
sudo yum update -y
sudo yum install -y java-11-openjdk-devel git gcc pkgconfig openssl openssl-devel unzip
# Install rust
curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
# Check that the protobuf compiler version 26.1 or higher is installed
protoc --version
# Install protobuf compiler
PB_REL="https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases"
curl -LO $PB_REL/download/v26.1/protoc-26.1-linux-x86_64.zip
unzip protoc-26.1-linux-x86_64.zip -d $HOME/.local
export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin"
# Check that the protobuf compiler version 26.1 or higher is installed
protoc --version
```
**Dependencies installation for MacOS**

```bash
brew update

> brew install openjdk@11 git gcc pkgconfig protobuf openssl

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
brew install openjdk@11 git gcc pkgconfig protobuf openssl protobuf
```

curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
source "$HOME/.cargo/env"
# Check that the protobuf compiler version 26.1 or higher is installed
protoc --version
# Install protobuf compiler

> # Install protobuf compiler

Reviewer 2: duplicate

PB_REL="https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/releases"
curl -LO $PB_REL/download/v26.1/protoc-26.1-linux-x86_64.zip

> unzip protoc-26.1-linux-x86_64.zip -d $HOME/.local

Reviewer 2: note, we can now install protobuf from brew install.  You can remove these calls to install protobuf.

export PATH="$PATH:$HOME/.local/bin"
# Check that the protobuf compiler version 26.1 or higher is installed
protoc --version

> # will additionally need to add protoc to the PATH.

Reviewer 2: you can remove this line.
IF the previous step works, then protoc is on the path.

```

#### Building and installation steps

Before starting this step, make sure you've installed all software dependencies.

1. Clone the repository:
    ```bash
    VERSION=0.1.0 # You can modify this to other released version or set it to "main" to get the unstable branch
    git clone --branch ${VERSION} https://github.com/aws/glide-for-redis.git
    cd glide-for-redis/java
    ```
2. Initialize git submodule:
    ```bash
    git submodule update --init --recursive
    ```
3. Build the Java wrapper (Choose a build option from the following and run it from the `java` folder):

    1. Enter the java directory:

    ```bash
    cd java
    ```

    2. Build in debug mode:

    ```bash
    ./gradlew :client:buildAll
    ```

    3. Build in release mode:

    ```bash
    ./gradlew :client:buildAllRelease
    ```

### Troubleshooting

Some troubleshooting issues:

Failed to find cargo after rustup: gradlew may need to be restarted to recognize the new path. If clearing the gradle cache doesn't work, you may need to restart your machine.
If build fails because cargo build compiler fails, make sure submodules are updated using git submodule update.

> If protobuf 26.0 or earlier is detected, upgrade to the latest protobuf release.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   - If protobuf 26.0 or earlier is detected, upgrade to the latest protobuf release.
```

# Developer Guide

This document describes how to set up your development environment to build and test the GLIDE for Redis Java wrapper.

### Development Overview

The GLIDE for Redis Java wrapper consists of both Java and Rust code. Rust bindings for the Java Native Interface are implemented using [jni-rs](https://github.com/jni-rs/jni-rs), and the Java JAR is built using [Gradle](https://github.com/gradle/gradle). The Java and Rust components communicate using the [protobuf](https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf) protocol.

### Build from source

#### Prerequisites

Software Dependencies

-   git
-   GCC
-   pkg-config
-   protoc (protobuf compiler) >= 26.1
-   openssl
-   openssl-dev
-   rustup
-   Java 11

> **Install protobuf compiler (necessary for all systems)**

Reviewer: All or all except mac? This conflicts with line 64

Reviewer: Actually instruction hardcodes `linux`. Make more flexible instructions or add a note that there is an example.

```bash
./gradlew :client:testFfi
```

To run end-to-end tests, use the following command:

```bash
./gradlew :integTest:test
```

To run a single test, use the following command:
```bash
./gradlew :integTest:test --tests '*.functionLoad_and_functionList' --rerun
```

To run one class, use the following command:
```bash
./gradlew :client:test --tests 'TransactionTests' --rerun
```

### Generate files
To (re)generate protobuf code, use the following command:

```bash
./gradlew protobuf
```

### Submodules

After pulling new changes, ensure that you update the submodules by running the following command:

```bash
git submodule update
```

### Implementing a command

A redis command can either have a standalone or cluster implementation which is dependent on their specifications.
- A node is an instance of a Redis server, and a redis cluster is composed of multiple nodes working in tandem.
- A cluster command will require a note to indicate a node will follow a specific routing.
Refer to https://redis.io/docs/latest/operate/oss_and_stack/reference/cluster-spec for more details on how hash slots work for cluster commands.

> When you start implementing a new command, check the [redis_request](glide-core/src/protobuf/redis_request.proto) and [request_type](glide-core/src/request_type.rs) files to see whether the command has already been implemented in another language such as Python or Node.js.

Reviewer: 404
check links

> Standalone and cluster clients both extend [BaseClient](java/client/src/main/java/glide/api/commands) and implement methods from the interfaces listed in `java/client/src/main/java/glide/api/commands`.

Reviewer: same

The return types of these methods are in the form of a `CompletableFuture`, which fulfill the purpose of the asynchronous features of the program.

When implementing a command, it requires both a unit test and an integration test. The objective of the UT is to mock the expected result.

### Tests

Implement unit tests in:
- [RedisClientTest.java](java/client/src/test/java/glide/api/RedisClientTest.java) for standalone.
- [RedisClientTest.java](java/client/src/test/java/glide/api/RedisClientTest.java), and '[RedisClusterClientTest](java/client/src/test/java/glide/api/RedisClusterClientTest.java) for cluster commands.
These files are found in the java/client/src/test/java/glide/api path.

Implement integration tests in the following files:
- [TransactionTests](java/client/src/test/java/glide/api/models/TransactionTests.java) (standalone and cluster)
- [TransactionTestsUtilities](java/integTest/src/test/java/glide/TransactionTestUtilities.java) (standalone and cluster)
- [SharedCommandTests](java/integTest/src/test/java/glide/SharedCommandTests.java) (standalone)

> - [CommandTests.java](java/integTest/src/test/java/glide/cluster/CommandTests.java) (cluster)

Reviewer: same

For commands that have options, create a separate file for the optional values.

[BaseTransaction](java/client/src/main/java/glide/api/models/BaseTransaction.java) will add the command to the Transactions list. [BaseClient](java/client/src/main/java/glide/api/commands) will submit the command to Transactions to execute.
Refer to https://redis.io/docs/latest/develop/interact/transactions/ for more details about how Transactions work in Redis.

### Javadocs

[BaseTransaction](java/client/src/main/java/glide/api/models/BaseTransaction.java) and the methods within the command interfaces will both contain documentation on how the command operates.
In the command interface it should contain
- Detail on when the Redis started supporting the command (if it wasn't initially implemented in 6.0.0 or before).

> - A link to Redis command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A link to Valkey documentation.
```

```bash
./gradlew :integTest:test
```

To run a single test, use the following command:
```bash
./gradlew :integTest:test --tests '*.functionLoad_and_functionList' --rerun
```

To run one class, use the following command:
```bash
./gradlew :client:test --tests 'TransactionTests' --rerun
```

### Generate files
To (re)generate protobuf code, use the following command:

```bash
./gradlew protobuf
```

### Submodules

After pulling new changes, ensure that you update the submodules by running the following command:

```bash
git submodule update
```

### Linters

Development on the Java wrapper may involve changes in either the Java or Rust code. Each language has distinct linter tests that must be passed before committing changes.

#### Language-specific Linters

**Java:**

-   Spotless

#### Running the linters

1. Spotless
    ```bash
    # Run from the `java` folder
    ./gradlew :spotlessApply
    ```
2. Rust
    ```bash
    # Run from the `java` folder
    rustup component add clippy rustfmt
    cargo clippy --all-features --all-targets -- -D warnings
    cargo fmt --manifest-path ./Cargo.toml --all
    ```

### Implementing a command

> 

Reviewer: Add some intro. What is the list below? instructions? info? facts?

- A node is an instance of a Redis server, and a redis cluster is composed of multiple nodes working in tandem.
- The redis commands can either have a standalone or cluster implementation dependent on their specifications.
- A cluster command will require a note to indicate a node will follow a specific routing.
Refer to https://redis.io/docs/latest/operate/oss_and_stack/reference/cluster-spec for more details on how hash slots work for cluster commands.

> When starting a command, check the redis_request.proto and request_type.rs to see whether the command has already been implemented in another language such as Python or Node.js.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you start implementing a new command, check the `redis_request.proto` and `request_type.rs` to see whether the command has already been implemented in another language such as Python or Node.js.
```
Add clickable links to these files on `main` branch

> The BaseClient.java (standalone and cluster) will implement methods from the following interfaces listed in the java/client/src/main/java/glide/api/commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Standalone and cluster clients both extend `BaseClient.java` and implement methods from the interfaces listed in `java/client/src/main/java/glide/api/commands`.
```
Add clickable links to the dir, `BaseClient.java`, Standalone and cluster

Reviewer: Please re-read all the text ignoring all you knowledge that you already have.
Only a person who never dealt with the client will read this - it should be clear and complete.

> The return types of these methods are in the form of a CompletableFuture<>, which is meant to fulfill the purpose of the synchronous and asynchronous features of the program.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The return types of these methods are in the form of a `CompletableFuture`, which fulfill the purpose of the asynchronous features of the program.
```

> The BaseClient.java can implement both standalone and cluster commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `BaseClient.java` class implements commands for both standalone and cluster clients.
```
This actually duplicates the above

When implementing a command, it requires both a unit test and an integration test. The objective of the UT is to mock the expected result.

> 

Reviewer: Add a subtitle
```suggestion

### Tests

```

> Implement a unit test in:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement unit tests in:
```

- RedisClientTest.java for standalone.
- RedisClientTest.java, and RedisClusterClientTest.java for cluster commands.
These files are found in the java/client/src/test/java/glide/api path.

> Implement an integration tests in the following files

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Implement integration tests in the following files:
```

- TransactionTests.java (standalone and cluster)
- TransactionTestsUtilities.java (standalone and cluster)
- SharedCommandTests.java (standalone)

> - CommandTests.java (cluster)

Reviewer: Wrap file and dir names with `` ` `` and add links

For commands that have options, create a separate file for the optional values.

BaseTransaction.java will add the command to the Transactions list. BaseClient will submit the command to Transactions to execute.

> Refer to https://redis.io/docs/latest/develop/interact/transactions/ for more details about how Transactions work in Redis.

Reviewer: Please reword as above and add links

> Javadocs

Reviewer: a title
```suggestion
### Javadocs

```

> BaseTransactions.java and the methods within the command interfaces will both contain documentation on how the command operates.

Reviewer: same - everywhere you refer a file, add a link to it on `main` branch in format
``[`File.java`](link)``

In the command interface it should contain

> - Detail on when the Redis started supporting the command (if it wasn't initially implemented in version 1.0.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Detail on when the Redis started supporting the command (if it wasn't initially implemented in 6.0.0 or before)
```

- A link to Redis command.
- Information about the function parameters.
- The command's return type. In the BaseTransaction.java file, include "Command Response" before specifying the return type.

> 

Reviewer: Add an advice to refer to completed PRs and may be a link to PRs on upstream https://github.com/aws/glide-for-redis/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed+label%3Ajava

> FFI naming and signatures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### FFI naming and signatures

```

Javac will create the name of the signature in rust convention which can be called on native code.
- In the command line write:
```bash
javac -h . RedisValueResolver.java
```
the results can be found in the glide_ffi_resolvers_RedisValueResolver.h file.
In this project, only the function name and signature name is necessary.

> Module Information
> - The module-info.java (glide.api) contains a list of all of the directories the user can access.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Module Information

- The `module-info.java` (`glide.api`) contains a list of all of the directories the user can access.
```

- Ensure to update the exports list if there are more directories the user will need to access.

### FFI and features
- Names of the FFI defined in lib.rs have to correspond to the paths of real Java classes that expose native functions.

> - lib.rs method names explicitly point to the native functions defined there.

Reviewer: You have 2 blocks about FFI, please merge into 1
